---
layout: project
title: MAE 3240 Problem Set #4
description: MAE 3240 Problem Set #4
image: /assets/images/htport.png
---


Problem Set #4 for MAE 3240: Heat Transfer
[Full Problem Set]({{ "/assets/images/HTPSET4.pdf" | relative_url }}).

From this assignment, I learned how to apply a new concept, which was modeling complex heat transfer problems using thermal resistance networks. In problem #1, I modeled a photovoltaic panel with a thermal resistance network, which included conduction through multiple different layers of different materials, as well as conduction and convection in parallel with each other. This problem helped me better understand how different heat transfer modes act in complex systems like this, and how we can simplify them to obtain information about useful outputs like efficiency and electrical power given a certain solar flux. This will be useful to me as in my career I will likely have to conduct some kind of thermal analysis on parts and/or systems. Knowing how thermal resistance networks work, I can help reduce the complexity of problems that seem very complex at first. 

This assignment also introduced me to the concept of fins/heat sinks. By analyzing a protruding rod in problem #2, I learned how geometry, thermal conductivity, and convection all influence the temperature distribution along a fin as well as a fin's performance. Calculating fin efficiency, effectiveness, and required lengths showed how these parameters are used in practical design situations to control temperature limits and improve heat dissipation. These skills will likely be useful in future engineering work as many real-world systems use fins and heat sinks to ensure temperatures stay within an appropriate range for operation. 


